out rather quickly when he got to working with this
that he could do many things with the machine, one
of which was that he could take some of this musty,
moldy, off-color grain and clean it up pretty
well. Sure enough. Right. And so he's feeling like
he's really sitting in the driver's seat on this
South Texas grain right now. Is that right? Well,
that's great. John, that must be the ideal double
application of some research findings that are
applicable over and above something else you set
out to do. Now, he didn't really start out trying to
treat that kind of grain. He tried to increase the
digestibility of good whole number one or two or
three. Right, number two regular grain. And he
didn't set out to do that either. It was our results
right there in that publication that showed there
was no difference between 100% popped and the
partial and non-popped fractions that convinced
him there's no point in trying to pop it. And what
percentage energy saving did he, right there, how
much did he affect? We don't have any information.
Well, I would guess that, I would guess easily 25%,
but that's just my wild guess is all. But at any
rate, now King Ranch has a micronizing system in.
They do? Yeah, they put one in. Is this being
commercially manufactured in? Yes. Who is making
it? Some outfit in Nebraska, so I really don't know
the name of it. It's comparatively recent. You
see, Chardo got Jay Taylor interested in the
thing, and Jay looked at it for a while, I said,
Chardo, I'm going to join you. And that gave Chardo
access to the engineering facilities of,
what's this, Halliburton. Really? Yeah, in
Oklahoma City. And of course, up to then, Chardo
was just kind of a blacksmith mechanic. He was
pretty good, and he knew what he wanted to do, and he
could do it if he had the time. He didn't have access
to the engineering talent that a company like that
had. I don't know how much that may have helped him,
but I'm sure it helped some. And of course, it gave
him around the world contact through Jay Taylor.
He was here for this meeting this week, and he told
me, I believe there are 43 of these things
operating in Japan now. Sure enough. I don't
suppose he's got that many in this country by quite
a bit. The Japanese are very aggressive, though,
in adopting and adapting something like that,
though, aren't they? Yes. They've got one or two of
them in England and some in Europe, I think. I don't
know just where. But at any rate, that's kind of our
story on it. And I hope we can get enough
information on this kind of grain here in the next
three months to have some sort of a decent package
that Well, in your feeding trials, John, are you
going to be utilizing this as well? No. Well? Well,
we may. What we're really trying to do— It seems
like it would be to their advantage to fund you
people trying some of that and see if it does make an
appreciable difference in the quality. We're
trying to get King Ranch to do this since they have
the grain. You're trying to get King Ranch, and
they've got the machine. And they've got the
equipment. Yeah. It seems like that. I'm not
really interested in a comparative trial of
micronized versus dry ground, because we've
already got that. We've even got it in the
commercial feedlot. No, but I was thinking about
this quality. I'm interested in what it's done
here, and this is what Stephen Klaver said, that we
might have some of this stuff that we've harvested
before and after And I suggested to him, in fact I
was writing a letter about it, that okay, we'd like
to see some of this grain fed just dry ground or dry
road. Just shut your burners off and run it through
the machine. And then turn them on and go the
micronizing route and just simply compare this in
that case. We won't have, at least we haven't got it
yet, a number two control to compare it with,
because they didn't separate their grain. He said
what we did, he said we had this damaged grain and we
checked it through the micronizer to find out it
was processed, and we found out it did. So we just
went ahead and dumped everything in the same bin.
Sure enough. So they're number two and they're
damaged, micronized grain, everything's all
together. Well, they're liable to have spotty
results, even so, aren't they? unless they feed it
blended. Yeah, I don't know. It's kind of like a
hose that's got some air in it, you know. Yeah, it
comes out and spurts.
That's sort of our story. I think we've pretty well
got something to work on now. We will have this test
going at Perry Foundation. And I've tried to get
Perry, since they've got both kinds of grain, to
put up four treatments. One would be the number two
grain, and they can only dry grind, cleaned and
uncleaned. That's number two grain. Just really
clean it up, blow all the trash and dirt out of it,
and then feed it in the unclean form. And then do the
same thing with this stuff, cleaned and
uncleaned.
And then if you add the effects of King Ranch. If we
get to it, if we get some information from King
Ranch, that'd be that. Now at Beeville, what we
plan to do is to run three treatments that will be
replicated. One of them will be with number two
grain, dry ground. And that will be 100% of the
grain in that ration. Another ration in which
we'll use 100% of this, just dry ground. And the
third one in which we will blend 50-50 of this stuff
in the number two. There's one thing that probably
would be worth doing if we could get it done
somewhere, and I don't know yet how to do it. And
that would be to clean, take a big batch of this
stuff and clean it. I don't have any idea how much
you'd have to do it, but what I'd like to do there
would be to be able to take this grain, cleaned,
thoroughly cleaned, and then blend back the
cleanings in given percentages, maybe two and a
half and five and seven and a half percent.
We should get that same type of information from
our physical characterization. In other words,
when you take this kind of grain, what percentage
of this junk do you get out of it?
But that won't tell us anything about feeding
value other than we don't count dirt and a lot of
this low quality stuff as having very much feeding
value anyway. It tends to dilute the energy
content. It's a negative quality. It has a
negative quality, really. and if it's low enough
it may actually take energy to to get it processed
through the digestive tract rather than
contributing anything at all from an energy
standpoint. Kind of like feeding feeding
polyethylene. You know it's completely inert.
Yeah. But sometimes we use it for a roughing it's
beautiful roughage and of course you've seen the
uh the other Polyethylene comes in many forms,
including sheaths that you put over your bowls in
the refrigerator. There's one of them. That's
those so-called rough tabs. Here's another one
that's finer ground stuff. And we've used it in
beadlets. It looks like you might have hammered up
some of this white pipe that they use. Well,
strange to say. The Phillips Company in Houston
has got a mountain of that out there. Have they?
Yeah. It's right on the banks of the ship channel
and every so often they have to send a bulldozer out
there to level the thing off or something to make
room for some more. That's lighter than cork. No
use for it, huh? Well, what they were interested in
was the possibility that it might be used as a
roughage. And this was at a time. It was lighter
than cork. Why don't they use it for stuff in life
preserves and the like? Well, I'm sure that
they've looked at many things and many
possibilities, one of which was possibly using it
for roughage and feeds. Yeah. I've got a young
friend who works for Union Carbide, and he took one
look at that stuff and he said, well, That's a
mistake. There's something wrong with the
process of reasoning out that. Unfortunately,
Union Carbide has to pay Phillips Company a
royalty for the use of their process, which they
don't even use. He said our process is much better
than that. If we got that, we'd figure that we were
completely off target with our process. So he just
considers that, and that's just bad technology in
the process somewhere.
But this dang stuff, and I saw this, and I mean, God,
this is soap powder. Yeah, it looks like it. But
it's that same stuff. You can get it in all
different densities.
Well, I guess I better go on over and see. What I can
do to help Steve, but I think that we've got a real
good basis for doing a column on that. Well, that's
about all I can tell you. I haven't got any results.
No. And I think this is the thing I've been— Too soon
for results, isn't it? This is the thing I've
always been extremely critical of Texas Tech for.
They're always talking about what they're going
to do and don't deliver too well. Well, I think we
can trade on our— reputation in this instance to do
a story. We've delivered enough time that I'm sure
that people give us the benefit of the doubt in this
one instance. But I'm like you. I don't too much
like one of these stories that we've got a problem
and we're researching it. Yeah, we're going to win
the football conference.
Tell the last game in Slade you won't know that.
That's for sure. Well, okay.